### 3-D CT Scans

In this directory one can find the work for generating the .msh files of 3-D CT scans to be imported in the numerical analysis.
The meshes are generated after reading a pack of 2-D images taken from a two phase material.

Two methods were developed:

1.  Generating the Voluemtric Mesh using Gmsh software from the Surface Meshes (.stl) generated using Pygalmesh library.
2.  Generating the Volumetric Mesh using Gmsh software by generating geometric files in FreeCad (.brep).

#### Steps to follow

The pygalmesh.py script generates the 3-D array from the photos and which holds the physical information of the 3-D CT scan. Using Pygalmesh library a volumetric and surface mesh for each phase is generated and saved in .vtk and .stl files respectively.

##### Gmsh(geo)

This directory holds 3 scripts for generating the Volumetric mesh using Gmsh software:

###### boolean_geometries.geo: Takes the geometry file (solid body) generated by FreeCad which defines the Volume of one of the phases and generates a bounding box where with a boolean operation the volume of the second phase can be obtained. Periodic boundaries are then implemented for the geometry.

###### boolean_stl.geo: Takes the stl mesh of one of the phases which define a volume and generates a bounding box where with a boolean operation the volume of the other phase is obtained. Periodic boundaries are then implemented to the geometry.

###### stl.geo: Merges the two stl files which defines the two volumes and periodic boundaries are implemented to the geometry.

##### Geometries

Contains .brep files created from the images dataset.

###### 80x80_simple: triangles of the same size define a small geometry of low resolution images (80 images) - solid geometry (null corners)
###### 100x100_simple: triangles of the same size define a geometry of low resolution images (100 images) - solid geometry (null corners)
###### 300x300_optimized: triangles of different size define a geometry of high resolution images (300 images) - not solid
###### 80x80_optimized: triangles of different size define a geometry of high resolution images (80 images) - solid with invalid boundaries

##### Surface Meshes

Surface meshes of each phase in .stl format

##### Volumetric Meshes

##### VTK

Volumetric Meshes of each phase in .vtk format

##### Gmsh(msh)

Volumetric Meshes after meshing in gmsh containing physical and geometrical information


###### boolean_80x80_brep_simple: Generated from one .brep file (gmsh code used -> boolean_geometries.geo)
###### boolean_100x100_brep_simple: Generated from one .brep file (gmsh code used -> boolean_geometries.geo)
###### boolean_stl_300x300: Generated from one stl file (gmsh code used -> boolean_stl.geo)
###### merged_300x300_stl: Generated from two stl files (gmsh code used -> stl.geo)



































